Unicode
[INS::INS]
[INS::INS]

Unicode Keyboard Symbols ⌘ ⏎ ⌫

By Xah Lee. Date: 2010-09-03. Last updated: 2018-07-02.

Here's a list of Unicode symbols to represent computer keyboard keys.

⌘ ✲ ⎈ ^ ⌃ ❖ ⌘ ⎇ ⌥ ◆ ◇ ✦ ✧ ⇧ ⇪ 🄰 🅰 ⇪ ⇫ ⇬ ⇮ ⇯ 🔠 🔡 ⇭ 🔢 🔤 ↩ ↵ ⏎ ⮰ ⌤ ⎆ ▤ ☰ 𝌆 ⎄ ⭾ ↹ ⇄
⇤ ⇥ ↤ ↦ ⎋ ⌫ ⟵ ⌦ ⎀ ⎚ ⌧ ↖ ↘ ⇤ ⇥ ⤒ ⤓ ⇱ ⇲ ⇞ ⇟ △ ▽ ▲ ▼ ⎗ ⎘ ↑ ↓ ← → ◀ ▶ ▲ ▼ ◁ ▷ △ ▽ ⇦
⇨ ⇧ ⇩ ⬅ ➡ ⬆ ⬇ ⎉ ⎊ ⎙ ⍰ ❓ ❔ ℹ 🛈 ☾ ⏏ ✉ 🏠 🏡 ⌂ ✂ ✄ ⎌ ↶ ↷ ⟲ ⟳ ↺ ↻ 🔍 🔎 🔅 🔆 🔇 🔈 🔉 🔊 🕨 🕩
🕪 ◼ ⏯ ⏮ ⏭ ⏪ ⏩ ⏫ ⏬

Mouse hover or click on a unicode character ⌘ to see its name and codepoint.

Note, how a unicode character shows on your screen depends the Operating System
(MacOS, Microsoft Windows, Linux), browser (e.g. Google Chrome, Safari, Edge),
and font you are using. What you see on this page may not be exactly what other
people see.

Microsoft keyboard control windows alt keys Control key symbol on Microsoft
Keyboards

Following are details.

Control key

• OPEN CENTRE ASTERISK ✲ is printed on Microsoft Keyboards.

• HELM SYMBOL ⎈ is used on French Canadian MacBook laptop for the Control key,
and sometimes used to indicate Control key in Linux documentation.

• CIRCUMFLEX ACCENT ^ (aka caret) is the classic notation to indicate ASCII
control sequences in programing, and also used as a notation for pressing
Control key for inputting control sequence. The symbol is mostly used in 1970s
to 1990s, in documentation or from online posts by user.

[see ASCII Characters ␀ ␣ ¶]

• UP ARROWHEAD ⌃, the actual character used by Apple website as of 2017-07, in
menu, in documentation.

apple keyboard french canadian layout 33409 Apple MacBook Pro laptop keyboard,
French Canadian Layout. Note the HELM SYMBOL ⎈ used for control key. [image
source https://apple.stackexchange.com/questions/46162/
where-are-and-in-a-french-keyboard ]

[see French Keyboard Layout]

The caret character ^ and UP ARROWHEAD ⌃ are not good to represent the Control
key, because it confuses with the printable caret character on the keyboard,
shifted digit 6 key.

Windows Logo Key

Windows Logo Key (suggestion) ❖

This symbol is sometimes used by small keyboard makers. e.g. on Truly Ergonomic
Keyboard

The Windows Logo key and the Apple Command key both send the same USB scancode.

On Linux, by convention, the Windows logo key is called “Super”. (not to be
confused with a real Super key on Lisp Machine keyboards. [see Lisp Machine
Keyboards] )

Command key

Command key ⌘

Apple iMac Keyboard A1242 big Apple's keyboard as of 2008. Apple keyboard [
image source ]

Alt key

Alt key ⎇. This is standard Unicode symbol for the Alt key, but is rarely used
as a label on keyboard nor in documentation.

Option key

Apple's Option key ⌥

Note: Alt on PC keyboard and ⌥ option on Apple Keyboards send the same USB
scancode.

Meta Key, Super Key

Meta key ◆ ◇

The BLACK DIAMOND ◆ is used on Sun Microsystems Type 6 Keyboard. Solaris
documentation calls it the Meta key. The Meta key is a key on Lisp Machine
Keyboards and heavily used by emacs. [see List of Emacs Default Keybinding]

sun keyboard left The Meta key with diamond ◆ symbol on Sun Microsystems Type 6
Keyboard

Hyper Key

lisp machine keyboard 2 left Symbolics's Lisp Machine keyboard PN 365407 Rev C.
(Photo by Joey Devilla. Used with permission.)

Hyper key (suggestions) ✦ ✧. Hyper is key on Lisp Machine Keyboards.

Shift key

Shift key ⇧

Caps lock

Capslock ⇪ 🄰 🅰

Other suggestions:

⇬ ⇫ ⇮ ⇯

Most keyboards use A inside a round corners square. Some use a dotted white fat
arrow.

Following are Input symbols from Unicode. 🔠 🔡

Number lock

Number Lock key suggestion ⇭ 🔢 🔤

I haven't seen any symbol used as label for Number Lock key.

Return/Enter key

Return/Enter Key ↩ ↵ ⏎ ⮰

This is the return key above the right shift key.

[see Keyboard Enter/Return Key Symbol]

  • Apple uses LEFTWARDS ARROW WITH HOOK ↩.
  • Microsoft uses a long version DOWNWARDS ARROW WITH CORNER LEFTWARDS ↵.
  • Some other keyboards use an outline 90° sharp turn RETURN SYMBOL ⏎. This is
    actually the standard symbol for Return key.

Enter ⌤ This is the enter key on number pad. This symbol is used by Apple. [see
Apple Computer Keyboards Gallery]

Enter ⎆. This is unicode symbol named ENTER SYMBOL.

Note: There are 2 return/enter keys on standard PC keyboard: one on main
section above right shift key, one on number pad. The keyboard hardware sends
different key signals.

  • On PC/Windows keyboards, they are both labeled “enter”.
  • On Apple keyboards, the main one is labeled “return”, and the one on number
    pad is “enter”.

Microsoft digital media keyboard 3000 enter key

Menu/App key

Menu/App key (suggestions) ▤ ☰ 𝌆 This key is invented by Microsoft. It is meant
to be a application specific key. [see Microsoft Keyboard Menu Key]

Compose key

Compose key ⎄. This key is rare. It's on Sun Microsystems Type 6 Keyboard, but
it doesn't use any symbol.

[see Alt Graph Key, Compose Key, Dead Key]

sun keyboard ret Compose key on Sun Microsystems Type 6 Keyboard

Tab key

Tab key ⭾ ↹ ⇄ ⇤ ⇥ ↤ ↦

Most PC Keyboards use a elongated ↹ for tab. European version of Apple
Keyboards use ⇥.

Escape key

Escape key ⎋

Most keyboards use “Esc” as label.

Matias Mini Tactile Pro Keyboard uses ⎋.

[see Matias Mini Tactile Pro Keyboard]

Apple's documentation also uses ⎋.

Backspace, Delete

Backspace/Delete key ⌫ ⟵

The backspace key is the key on the top right of a PC keyboard. For example,
look at IBM Model M keyboard. [see IBM Model M keyboard]

Microsoft keyboard lable this key as “Backspace” together with a long left
arrow “⟵” printed beneath it. [see Microsoft Keyboards]

On Apple Keyboards, this key is labeled “delete”.

Don't confuse this key with the Delete key in the home/end/insert key cluster.

Delete key ⌦

The delete keys is in the cluster of {home, end, page up, page down, insert}

Insert

Insert symbol ⎀

This is Unicode U+2380: INSERTION SYMBOL. This symbol is used by copy editors,
to indicate insertion.

Most keyboards label it “Insert” or “Ins”.

IBM Model M 3193 uses this symbol, but with the hat ^ at top. [see IBM Model M
keyboard]

Clear Key

clear ⎚ ⌧

The clear key is the key on the number pad on Apple Keyboards.

It is labeled as “clear”.

Home/End Keys

Home/End ⤒ ⤓ ↖ ↘ ⇤ ⇥ ⇱ ⇲

Apple keyboard uses ↖ ↘ before 2018, now uses ⤒ ⤓.

mac keyboard viewer changes 2018 05 01 fkjyd Mac keyboard viewer changes
2018-05-01

[see Mac Keyboard Viewer and Unicode]

Page Up/Down

Apple pro keyboard german layout 92684 “Apple pro keyboard (German) (A1048)”
image source

Page Up/Down key ⇞ ⇟ △ ▽ ▲ ▼

  • Apple Keyboards use ⇞ ⇟.
  • Logitech Keyboards usually use ▲ ▼

Previous/Next Page

⎗ ⎘

These are for browser previous/next page. The ⎗ ⎘ are used by IBM Thinkpad
around 2000 to 2011. [see Evolution of Laptop Keyboards, No More Page Up/Down
Keys!]

Arrow Keys

Commonly seen symbols used for arrow keys ↑ ↓ ← → ◀ ▶ ▲ ▼ ◁ ▷ △ ▽ ⇦ ⇨ ⇧ ⇩ ⬅ ➡ ⬆
⬇

[see Unicode Arrows → ⇒ ⇄ ↻]

Print Screen Key

⎙ PRINT SCREEN SYMBOL

I haven't seen this symbol used on keyboard.

Scroll Lock (ScrLk)

Suggestions:

  • ⤓
  • ⇳ 🔒

System Request (SysRq)

Suggestions:

  • 🗱 LIGHTNING MOOD BUBBLE
  • 🗲 LIGHTNING MOOD

[see Print Screen, SysRq, ScrLk, Pause, Break Keys]

Pause/Break

pause key ⎉

break key ⎊

These are standard symbols for pause/break used in electronic circuits.

In the beginning, keyboard's pause/break key(s) have similar meaning to the
electronic pause/break, but not today.

[see Print Screen, SysRq, ScrLk, Pause, Break Keys]

I haven't see keyboard using these symbols.

Help Key

Help key suggested symbols.

⍰ ❓ ❔ ℹ 🛈

Help key is in Apple Keyboards ⌨ and Sun Microsystems Type 6 Keyboard

This key is typically labled just “help”.

Sleep Key

☾

[see Astrology Symbols 🌛]

Eject

Eject ⏏

mail key

mail ✉

[see Office Emoji 📌]

browser home page key

home 🏠 🏡 ⌂

Cut

Cut ✂ ✄

Undo, Redo

Undo, redo ⎌ ↶ ↷

[see Unicode Arrows → ⇒ ⇄ ↻]

Reload/Refresh Key

Reload/Refresh ⟲ ⟳ ↺ ↻

The symbol ⟳ is used by Chromebook for browser refresh.

Microsoft Edge browser uses ↻ for reload.

Chromebook pixel keyboard 2015 a202d288 Chromebook Pixel keyboard, featuring
keys 🔍 and ⟳ Chromebook Pixel

Search Key, Magnify Key

search, find, magnify. 🔍 🔎. The manifying glass 🔍 is used on Google Chromebook
for web search function, as replacement for the Caps Lock key.

Screen Brightness Key

brightness. 🔅 🔆

Multimedia Keys

mute 🔇 no sound 🔈 sound down 🔉 sound up 🔊

🕨 🕩 🕪

stop ◼ play/pause ⏯, prev song ⏮, next song ⏭, fast backward ⏪, fast forward ⏩,
fast upward ⏫, fast downward ⏬

[see Unicode: Computer UI Icons 🗑]

Number Lock, Number Pad Keys

[see Unicode Circled Numbers ① ② ③]

Sample Use of Keyboard Symbols

Apple keyboard shortcut symbols Key symbols used in Mac OS X menu, as of 2009.
Apple Mac OS X safari menu 2009 keyboard shortcut Notation used in Mac OS X,
from Safari, 2009.

  • Short Survey of Keyboard Shortcut Notations
  • Emacs's Keybinding Layout Diagram

Computer Interfac Icons

Unicode: Computer UI Icons 🗑

Character Representation

ASCII Characters ␀ ␣ ¶

Unicode Symbols

 1. Common Characters ✓ © § ❦
 2. Punctuations † ¶ © ® ™ ☙
 3. Currency $ € ¥ £ ¢
 4. Circled Numbers/Letters ① ② ③
 5. Keyboard keys ⌘ ⏎ ⌫
 6. ASCII ␀ ␣ ¶
 7. Arrows → ⇒ ⇄ ↻
 8. Brackets, Quotes «»「」【】《》
 9. Math ∑ ∫ π² ∞
10. Math Font ℤ ℚ ℝ ℂ
11. Greek Alphabet α β γ
12. APL

Unicode Search [                              ]

Try “heart face” (without quotes), or 9829, or U+1f60d, or paste emoji 😂. (If
nothing happens, try Unicode Search for old browser)

[INS::INS]

If you have a question, put $5 at patreon and message me.

 1. Emoji 😂
 2. Hand 👍
 3. Food 🍎
 4. Love 💋
 5. Clothing 👠
 6. Animal 🐰
 7. Insect 🐞
 8. Plant 🌵
 9. Sport ⚽
10. Astrology 🌛
11. Weather 🌧
12. Place 🎪
13. Signs ⛔
14. Vehicle 🚀
15. Things 🔪
16. Tech 🎧
17. Office 📌
18. UI 🗑
19. Clock ⏰
20. Music 🎶
21. Flags 🏁
22. Sex ⚤
23. Stars ★
24. Cross ✚
25. Games ♞
26. Shapes ■
27. Box ▓
28. Dingbats ☭
29. Keyboard ⌘
30. Common ©
31. Punctuation ❣
32. Currency €
33. Circled ❽
34. Arrow →
35. Bracket «»
36. Math ∑
37. Math ℝ
38. Greek α
39. APL ⍝
40. ASCII ␀
41. Hieroglyph 𓂀
42. Unit ㎜
43. full-width 全

How To

 1. How to Input Unicode
 2. Download Font

Versions

 1. Unicode 11
 2. Unicode 10
 3. Unicode 9
 4. Unicode 8
 5. Unicode 7

Unicode Art

 1. Japan Unicode Art
 2. Unicode Art
 3. Unicode Art Font Emulation
 4. Emoji Tale: Good Night Gone Bad
 5. Unicode Smilies (¬_¬)

Misc

 1. Emoji Frequency
 2. emoji vs emoticon
 3. Unicode Equivalence
 4. Symbol Become Emoji

∑XAH
© 1995, …, 2018 Xah Lee.
